the playful crackle and gentle warmth of the fire were a stark contrast to the thunderstorm that raged outside.  inside the small tavern, the fire's light illuminated everything with a constant, soft orangish-yellow glow.  the warmth from the fireplace gently permeated every corner of the room, bringing a sense of safety and calm.  outside, the storm spoke of violence and uncertainty, as blistering flashes of lightning ripped apart the evening darkness.  it was early spring, and spring storms were often the worst.  the booming thunder was a defiant message from the sky, mercilessly unleashing its anger on the earth below.  the bright strikes of violent lightning seemed to be the cloud's attempts to assault the ground.  even the rain was cold and heavy, drenching the land in a layer of wet misery.  it was indeed a awful day to be outside.
darigan again turned his head to stare out the windows of the tiny tavern, and then took another swig of ale.  he was glad that he had arrived before the storm had reached its peak.  walking in the driving rain was an exercise in drudgery.  although he had engaged in that exercise many times in the past, and would probably do so again many times in the future, he hated rain above all other forms of abysmal weather.  rain soaked everything, got into everything, and ruined everything.  snow could be combated with a warm jacket, fog with a strong lantern, and wind with a stiff leather tunic, but rain was impossible to fight against.  darigan could not count the number of times that the pouring rain had rusted his sword and ruined all of his bowstrings.
as the thought of his sword and bow crossed his mind, darigan turned to the collection of weapons near the entrance of the tavern, deposited there by the various patrons who had entered.  his steel four foot longsword (covered by its hardened leather scabbard) and willow shortbow (along with a quiver of iron arrows and a pouch of spare bowstrings) stood out among the arms.  most of the weapons leaning against the cedar wall were simple and not particularly well-kept.  among them were several hunting bows (mostly old and all very worn), a small handful of blades (all under three feet long, and most without scabbard), and a collection of staffs.  darigan's sword appeared stately and formidable among the smaller blades, and his shortbow, although smaller than most of the hunting bows, appeared much more durable and deadly.  he imagined that most of the hunting bows had never killed anything but a deer, and that the blades had no purpose other than to skin carcasses.  this was not the case of his arms.  his longsword had known combat, had stabbed through armor and hacked off limbs, had killed men.  his shortbow had shot through chain-mail, had combated foes in wind and rain, had stilled the beating hearts of darigan's enemies.
a sudden and extremely loud lightning strike illuminated the tavern in a blinding white.  the thunder that immediately followed rattled the windows and caused the thin walls to shake ever so slightly.  an annoyed murmur rose up from the other patrons in the tavern.  a few of them silently glanced at darigan for a moment, and then returned to their drinks and merry-making.  they were, in every way, as different from darigan as his weapons were from theirs.  he was a stranger in this place, an adventurer from some distant land seeking some fantastical fate or treasure.   probably just some trouble maker. muttered one of the patrons.  some young fool after an ancient prize, i'd wager. another asserted.  for their part, the patrons were simple farmers, local folk who were hardworking and practical, and had no time for adventures or fate or ancient buried treasures.  they eyed  darigan with a slight suspicion and a tiny hint of curiosity.
darigan barely noticed them.  he was waiting for the rest of his party to arrive.  the terrible storm had stalled the others, he imagined.  he would wait.  there was no urgency to their task.  another ale! he said, and gestured to the tavern keeper.  it would be a long night.
